README.md, before:

# PROVR

__PRefix Origin Validation in Realtime__

The PRefix Origin Validation in Realtime (PROVR) framework aims to provide a
consistent (and live) view on the RPKI validation state of currently announced
IP prefixes. That is, it verifies association of an IP prefix and its BGP origin
AS (autonomous system) utilizing RPKI. Resulting validation states are:

* _NotFound_, if no RPKI entry exists for a prefix
* _Valid_, if at least one matching entry (ROA) was found in the RPKI database
* _InvalidLength_, if there is an entry (ROA) for a prefix with matching origin AS, but the prefix length mismatches
* _InvalidAS_, if there is an entry (ROA) for a prefix, but the origin AS does not match

The PROVR monitoring system has two parts: the backend storing latest validation
results in a database, and the (web) frontend displaying these results as well
as an overview on statistics derived from them.
The backend connects to a live XML stream of a known BGPmon instance, parses
BGP update messages to extract IP prefixes and origin AS information. Prefix
origins are validated using the RTRlib client to query a RPKI cache server.

Commit message:

rebrand (again) to RPKI READ - REAl time Dashboard

README.md, after:

# RPKI READ

__RPKI Real time Dashboard__

The Real time Dashboard (READ) aims to provide a consistent (and live) view on
the RPKI validation state of currently announced IP prefixes. That is, it
verifies association of an IP prefix and its BGP origin AS (autonomous system)
utilizing RPKI. Resulting validation states are:

* _NotFound_, if no RPKI entry exists for a prefix
* _Valid_, if at least one matching entry (ROA) was found in the RPKI database
* _InvalidLength_, if there is an entry (ROA) for a prefix with matching origin AS, but the prefix length mismatches
* _InvalidAS_, if there is an entry (ROA) for a prefix, but the origin AS does not match

The RPKI READ monitoring system has two parts: the backend storing latest
validation results in a database, and the (web) frontend displaying these
results as well as an overview on statistics derived from them.
The backend connects to a live XML stream of a known BGPmon instance, parses
BGP update messages to extract IP prefixes and origin AS information. Prefix
origins are validated using the RTRlib client to query a RPKI cache server.
